budget gaming fragile design is proud to
introduce their new Celsius plus lineup
of all-in-one cpu water coolers
available in either dynamic or Prisma
the tinted glass pump face reveals the
LED backlight logo and a RGB LED effects
while the smart auto control dynamically
adjust pump and fan speeds based on
temperature for the perfect balance of
silence and cooling performance to see
the full list of features and sizes
available head to the sponsored link in
the description below talking about
high-end hardware is always fun I mean I
don't think anyone would disagree like
if you had the opportunity and someone
taught you the keys to a Lamborghini
you're gonna go for a ride
you're gonna behind inside at the end of
the day you can't take it home but you
still enjoyed going along for that right
well a lot of people never even get the
ability to even experience a high-end
gaming computer which is why when we see
the advancements and architectures make
their way down to the entry level part
numbers or the parts queues it's
exciting because you start to get a
taste of what it's actually like with
the higher-end Hardware now right now
you might have heard a couple weeks ago
AMD launched some of the information
regarding the their new their - new
entry number or level SKUs the 3100 and
the 3300 X now to kind of put a lot of
rumors aside a lot of people were like
well it's just a 3200 G with the Navi
stripped out and it's just a 3400 G with
the Navi stripped out and it's really
not these are completely different parts
from the ground up no no they don't have
Navi graphics in there they're not ap
use but both of these parts are for core
8 thread parts so they both have SMT or
simultaneous multi-threading today we're
going to kind of focus on one of the
CPUs and that's gonna be the 3300 X and
that's for several reasons one AMD
during the press conference or the press
meeting that we had made a claim in
there that we really wanted to test and
that is that the 3300 X has caught up
and passed the 7700 K which mind you is
only three years old it's a Q 1 2017
part that for the longest time was like
the gaming King CPU I remember that was
during an area week an area where you
can only get four core eight thread on
main stream with Intel none of this you
know 10 core 20 threads stuff like you
have in three years
thank you rise n for causing the CPU
battles of
in place to give you more for your money
moving forward but that doesn't change
the fact that a lot of people don't have
five hundred dollars to spend on a CPU
enter this 120 dollar part so we're
gonna be comparing this 120 dollar CPU
in 2020 versus a nearly $400 CPU from
2017 one that I'm sure many of you are
still running right now now if you're
one of those that are running a 7700 K
Intel system and you suddenly hear that
one of AMD's lowest priced CPUs has
matched and potentially surpassed it
that's kind of a scary thought right but
it's a fun thought the 3100 we'll talk
about later on in a full like budget
build guide of a hundred dollar CPU so
anyway the specs it is based on the tsmc
7 nanometre FinFET architecture so it is
a brand new part from the ground up like
I've said so it's then - obviously it's
got 2 and 56 KB of l1 cache 2 megabytes
l2 and 16 megabytes of l3 I've already
said they are both fork or a thread
parts with SMT they're a m4 socket
obviously they are compatible with B 450
motherboards and potentially even b33
20s I think they're called there might
be the Intel part anyway you probably
won't need a BIOS update to even run
them because to be fair we are using the
gigabyte x57 tud that we bought with
this $2,000 build I updated the BIOS but
the BIOS predates the CPUs announcement
and it has no mention of it having the
latest CPU compatibility in there but it
runs just fine also - in terms of
setting everything is disabled in terms
of any sort of core enhancement any sort
of overclocking the only thing we did
was set the memory to its XMP /d OCP
profile of 3,000 megahertz we did the
same thing on the 7700 K system which is
not on the table here that's a 7700 K
running an MSI z 270 motherboard they
are using the same exact graphics card
we took our EVGA GeForce r-tx 2080 Super
which is a dual fan card not a big
custom you know it's a founders PCB or
reference PCB but we did overclock the
card because what we're looking for here
is the bottleneck we want to find a
bottleneck and see how both CPUs handle
it the 7700 K
is also running sixteen megabytes of
3,000 megahertz memory at spread to
mentioned this is 16 gig over here
they're both the same in terms of memory
speeds and settings on the systems or
exactly identical basically fresh
installs on both of these systems
updated on 1909 all the updates same
exact drivers as A to B comparison as we
could possibly make it now let's talk
about both test systems real quick they
are both running the latest version of
Windows 1909 all the updates have been
installed they both are running high
performance mode in the desktop power
settings we want to make sure Windows is
not controlling the CPUs at all they are
having no overclocking applied
whatsoever to the CPUs they are out of
the box settings with the exception of
the memory which we talked about running
at 3000 mega Hertz and then Windows
Defender is running on each system so we
kind of set it up with a fresh install
on both systems up basically how we
think an out-of-the-box install with a
fresh system would go there's no other
bloatware going there's no monitors or
any of that stuff even MSI Afterburner
wasn't running when you're doing our
testing but we did overclock the
graphics card the graphics card has a
plus seventy-five megahertz overclock on
the core it has a plus 500 megahertz
overclock on the memory power limits at
116 so 16 percent additional power draw
allowed to it core voltage slider hasn't
been touched and the fan was set to a
hundred percent well J why are you doing
that one we want to remove any GPU
throttling or fluctuation of course
speed based on the you know temperature
curve to make sure that things are as
consistent as possible to the case side
panel was open I want to make sure the
case didn't introduce any sort of
artificial slowdowns in terms of those P
States and temperature states and then
three we want to make sure that we are
pushing more FPS to the CPU than we
think it can handle it is what we're
looking at here is how each of these
systems handle a graphics card that is a
mismatch now why do you why do I call it
a mismatch a 7700 K at nearly $400 in
2017 the best GPU you could have
possibly got at the time was a 20 atti I
think the ti was out by then potentially
our 1080 Ti yeah
it's been around that long right they
had a I believe ten ATT I was available
in q1 2017 but a lot of people would
have run a 1080 TI with it cuz it was
still the best mainstream CPU you could
possibly get for Intel when you take
$120 CPU and then put $800 graphics card
on there that's a that's a poor mismatch
but if these two are equal like AMD
claims then that also makes the 20/80
super a poor mismatch for a 7700 k so we
did cpu tests as well as GPU tests in
there all the GP tests are at 1080p for
the very same reason we just said as
many frames as possible to see how the
CPUs handle it so let's let these to
battle right now and see how the results
turn out
[Music]
alright starting with the blender
benchmark and you guys can actually
download this if you want if you just go
to Google and look up blender benchmark
and you download it you can run the test
yourself and compare your results to the
CPU if you're curious if it would be any
sort of enough update to you in this app
anyway the 3300 X did our BMW test in
325 seconds the 7700 K did it in 338
seconds so there's two things happening
here you have the superior IPC of the
Zen 2 architecture versus a much older
architecture from Intel so just like the
argument today of well IPC vs. core
clock well if the core clock is much
closer than the IPC definitely becomes
king and that was Avant evident that was
evident evident you know what I'm trying
to say that was Abba dent in the
benchmark let's go ahead now and take a
look at the next test on here which was
Cinebench r20
interesting thing about this is
Cinebench does take advantage of AVX
instructions those don't exist on AMD so
what you're seeing here is just the raw
IPC and horsepower of zen 2 architecture
versus the little bit more optimized but
harder-hitting ABX instruction sets of
intel and the score differences were
pretty big multi-core on the AMD we got
26 15 on the 3300 x versus a 23 84 on
the intel that's a very tangible
difference we're talking over 10% and on
single core once again that IPC
definitely showing at 504 versus a 471
Geekbench I don't know exactly what deep
bench is testing algorithm is and how it
works but again it's another free
benchmark you can download to compare
your scores just like Cinebench r20 the
3300 ex corde 53:31 in multi-core vs.
intel's 50 90 so again that's I got
eight percent difference or so and then
single core 2012 84 versus a 1263 much
closer but once again the higher IPC
lower core clock beat out the lower IPC
higher core clock but games though let's
talk about 3d mark x by we know for a
fact 3d mark favors Intel why because
it's got a calculation in there for CPU
for physics which uses a DX instruction
office are on table stat offset AVX
in
directions which is only available on
intel-based CPUs so the cpu score for
the 3,300 X scored lowers you might
expect a five thousand seventy eight
versus a 56 14 on the Intel the GPU
score the same thing which is kind of
funny though because the GPUs are
independent of CPU tests but what we saw
here is that the Intel edged out the
3300 X by a bit actually at twelve
thousand 551 versus an eleven thousand
901 and then again on the combined score
those are that's algorithmic based on
the GPU and CPU and the way they work
together at ten thousand five eighty
eight versus a nine thousand 904 now let
me tell you this real quick you're not
going to notice these differences if
this were a game you would never notice
this difference in fact there's times
where we swear the run seems smoother on
one platform versus another and it
scores lower it's just another benchmark
that we use to kind of see how some of
the different instructions react to
different CPUs this is not us saying oh
look three times by says this is a
better CPU because if you use 3d times
by alone three more times play alone
versus the other CPU test well aim d1
all three of those tests but lost at
3dmark dx12 test so take that for what
it is but the game benchmarks this is
where it gets really interesting and
this is where we only did three titles
and we're gonna do a live gameplay of
doom eternal which we know is a highly
optimized engine it's interesting
because the far cry 5 which we know is a
very CPU bound game and even their
benchmark shows CPU load was a average
FPS of 119 on the Intel and 105 on the
3,300 X Shadow the Tomb Raider much
closer a 113 on Intel versus a 110 on
the AMD but rise of the Tomb Raider
which we know to be a very AMD optimized
title which is the older Tomb Raider 150
FPS average at max settings 1080p in DX
11 versus 139 on the Intel so I feel
like if we went through and did more
testing with different with more titles
we would probably see those those blows
trade back and forth all day long which
is what AMD claimed and that's actually
excited to see that $120 part
is on par and matching what was just
three years ago Intel's top-of-the-line
part for mainstream so let's go and do
this then let's jump into some doom
eternal which is a new title it's an
updated engine for what was doom and an
amazing game that allowed you to get
beautiful graphics and high FPS even on
potato systems let's look for things
like stutters and any sort of like
texture Poppins and stuff like that just
to see what the real time gaming
experience is like on this really cheap
CPU so we've got the metrics on in the
game and doom eternal and as you can see
we're getting to 5 fps so if you wanted
that much fps you got it no honestly
we're in the menu so if you want to look
down here this is what we care about
right here - is what is our actual CPU
usage and as you can see all eight
threads are doing something and they're
pretty highly utilized which makes sense
with the amount of frames were thrown at
it in the game that's gonna drop down
obviously we've got a bit of a fight
going on here and this is extremely
smooth I mean look at the f guess right
now 200 I'm probably gonna die because I
do suck at this game I'm trying to kind
of show something to you guys 100 teeth
gonna die oh I didn't realize he was
there yeah I'm dead yeah I'm not seeing
any stutters any anything that's really
like getting in the middle of the
experience I mean these numbers look
pretty promising especially on a title
let's hide it like this alright so one
other title we're gonna try here and
that is counter-strike go the reason for
that is it's a game a lot of people
still like to play it's withstood the
test of time and apparently this game
requires a high FPS for people to not be
mad with it because higher the FPS the
better the input lag apparently so we're
gonna go ahead now we're just playing
offline with some bots on hard which is
kind of harder on the CPU because it's
also running the server and the bots and
as you can see we are getting 300 FPS is
no stuttering no
like jitter nothing it's super smooth
it's actually quite amazing 300 FPS I
mean it's a 2080 Super right and then
the CPU it's like nowhere near being
loaded so that means we're getting up
here that means we're getting our GPUs
worth why the random where is it
Oh a beauty like you don't understand
man I used to be really good at Counter
Strike back in the day and then won 6
and then Soros and I just quit before go
but I was really good with the flick
shots I really was still a little bit of
muscle memory not a lot but some
oh wow counter-strike go yes go play
Counter Strike on this CPU so when it
comes to testing though one thing I
forgot to mention is that both of the
CPUs were on all-in-one water coolers we
just wanted to make sure that everything
was you know whoa not to mention AMD
gave us the CPU in just a plastic bin
like no box or anything so I don't know
if they come with a box cooler normally
the lower end CPUs do but we were using
an a IO with it as you can see right
here in this system and the 70mm here k
also had an AI oh so the temperatures on
these were extremely low the 7700 K was
topping out in the 60s this guy was
topping out actually in the upper 40s
which is pretty ridiculous of how cool
and quiet it is obviously your results
are gonna vary based on your chassis
ambient temperature or the type of code
that you're running but this cpu given
given the fact that it's a 65 watt part
is not going to take very much in terms
of cooling to keep it quiet and keep it
well under any sort of throttling
threshold but is it worth buying
absolutely if you can take a $120 CPU
which is less than one third of the cost
of a 7700 K when it was new and get that
level of performance in 2020 Intel
fanboys you can't double speak you can't
say the 700 K is a great gaming CPU and
is still a great value but then say the
AMD CPU at $120 that matches that value
and actually surpasses it in
multi-threaded applications across the
board and say well that's not a good CPU
that's doublespeak you can't do that
that's fanboy isms we don't appreciate
that around here the performance you're
getting out of this is great
four cores eight threads at 120 dollars
the 3100 is next up on the on the
chopping block in terms of getting
reviewed we're gonna be comparing those
CPUs though prop bet CPU probably to
what the comparable $100 CPU that you
can get from Intel is and then I want to
do some content to regarding
overclocking because the one downside of
AMD and these CPUs is they do not have
much in the way of overclocking Headroom
I wouldn't buy a hundred and twenty
dollar CPU either expecting to overclock
it and make it get yourself you know a
whole nother tier level of performance
anything above 4.2 on the rise in
architecture and the Zen to architecture
for some reason it's just kind of a hard
limiting wall that's really difficult to
get past and this one is boosting itself
there already anyways so yeah more
content to look forward to with that so
what are you guys has thoughts on one
hundred and twenty dollar seventy seven
hundred K performing CPU you think it's
worth it I'd I think you would be
hard-pressed to argue why it wouldn't be
it's faster than any other $120 CPU you
can currently get from Intel it's faster
than the previous one hundred and twenty
dollar CPUs that you could get from AMD
it's the perfect CPU to pair with a
budget build and something like a twenty
sixty or less we showed with the twenty
eighty you are losing some fps in terms
of general CPU limitations when it comes
to putting an $800 graphics card which
is a terrible match for the CPU and as
you can see with the seventy seven seven
seven hundred K is also a terrible match
but if you start pairing something with
it that's a you know a sixteen sixty TI
or a twenty sixty or something around
there it would be the perfect pair for a
reasonably priced gaming machine that is
snappy it's quick it's cool it's quiet
its efficient all the things we've been
wanting in an AMD CPU has made its way
now to a ridiculously cheap price point
so sign up in the comments below how you
guys feel about this we will be testing
the 3100 and then of course the
entry-level CPUs for tension Intel in
the next few weeks alright guys thanks
for watching and as always we'll see you
in the next one